The evening before he died, Jesus Christ asked his father in prayer to watch over his disciples.
His request is recorded at John 17, 15 through 17. Read it with me.
Jesus said,
I do not request that you take them out of the world, but that you watch over them because of the wicked one.
They are no part of the world, just as I am no part of the world.
Jesus' confidence in Jehovah and in the power of the truth can be seen clearly in what he asks of his father in verse 17.
Sanctify them by means of the truth. Your word is truth.
When we accept the truth and make a personal dedication to God, in a general sense, we are sanctified or set apart from the world because we no longer fit into its mold.
People view us differently because our values have changed.
We live by the standards of Bible truth, and doing so honors Jehovah God, gives our life meaning, and brings us great happiness.
With those thoughts in mind, how should we feel about the sayings of God and the Bible truths that we have learned?
We feel the way the Psalmist did.
At Psalm 119, 140, he said to Jehovah God,
your saying is thoroughly refined, which means that it's clean and pure, and then he said,
and your servant loves it.
Isn't that how we feel about the truth? We love it.
It would be wonderful if everyone would respond to the truth of God's Word and love it.
However, the sad fact is that the majority of the world rejects it.
There are many people who do not believe that truth is attainable.
Some ancient philosophers made the teaching of doubts virtually their life's work.
Human philosophy is built on pride of intellect and a warped pleasure of endless speculation
that leaves Jehovah God the Creator completely out of the picture.
By removing God, philosophers wander in a maze of ideas and theories that fascinate the mind and inflate the ego,
but never arrive at the truth.
If truth were not attainable, why would Jesus Christ say as recorded at John 831 and 32?
If you remain in my Word, you are really my disciples, and you will know the truth,
and the truth will set you free.
Are we not experiencing the freedom that Jesus spoke of?
And why would the Apostle Paul write at 1 Timothy 2.4 that God's will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth?
Why does the word truth occur over a hundred times in the Christian Greek scriptures?
Jesus not only pointed out that the truth is attainable,
but he showed that finding it is required if our worship is to be approved by God.
When a Samaritan woman wondered what the true form of worship was,
the worship practiced by the Jews in Jerusalem,
or that practiced by the Samaritans among garrism,
Jesus did not answer by saying that truth is unattainable,
and you don't need to worry about it,
or you can believe whatever you want to believe.
No, Jesus did not view the truth as relative,
that whatever you want to believe is the truth.
That is nonsense and has nothing to do with the realities of life.
At John 423 and 24,
Jesus made a specific reference to truth,
God's spirit, and pure worship.
At John 423 and 24, he said,
true worshipers will worship the Father with spirit and truth,
for indeed the Father is looking for ones like these to worship Him.
God is a spirit, and those worshiping Him must worship with spirit and truth.
Jesus was talking about being guided in our worship by God's Holy Spirit,
and that we do not need the use of temples, images,
or other physical objects in true worship.
And the truth that Jesus referred to is an accurate knowledge of Bible truths.
True faith is much more than just belief in God that He exists.
It also means an acceptance of God's Word,
obtaining an intellectual understanding of that Word,
and then manifesting a heartfelt reliance upon it.
As genuine Christians,
we view the Bible as the inspired Word of God,
beneficial for teaching and disciplining mankind.
Psalm 119, 160 says of Jehovah God,
the very essence of your Word is truth.
When Jesus Christ stood before Pontius Pilate
and told him that He had come to earth to speak the truth,
Pilate responded with the words,
what is truth?
Likely, Pilate was cynical.
His words reveal a skeptical view of truth.
But the truth that Jesus had in mind was about God's kingdom
and Jesus' role as its king.
That was the very theme, the core of Jesus' teaching while He was on earth.
That's why when Pilate asked Jesus if He was a king,
Jesus replied,
you yourself say it.
In other words,
yes, I am.
But He added that His kingdom was no part of this world.
The truth is that His kingdom will sanctify Jehovah's name,
vindicate His sovereignty,
and restore faithful mankind to happy eternal life.
Genuine Christians embrace this truth.
Since Jesus' role in the fulfillment of all of God's promises
is so pivotal and since all of God's prophecies become amen
or true because of Him,
Jesus could well say as recorded at John 146,
I am the way and the truth and the life.
And as 2 Corinthians 120 declares,
for no matter how many the promises of God are,
they have become yes by means of Him.
Therefore also through Him is the amen said to God.
Jesus used the word amen to affirm the truthfulness of what was said.
But He did so in a unique way.
We usually say amen after a prayer is said to show our agreement with it.
However, rather than use it to reply to a prayer or a statement,
He used amen to introduce pronouncements of truth.
At times He repeated the word saying amen, amen,
and then made His statement which would be like saying,
most truly I say to you.
Yes, by using this expression,
He assured His listeners that His words were the absolute truth.
Jesus could speak with such certainty
because He was the one authorized to make all of God's promises come true.
To us, the exhilarating good news of God's kingdom under the rulership of Jesus Christ
is more far more than mere information.
That truth moves us to action.
It compels us to live by it and share it with others.
To the first century Christian congregation,
the way of life they adopted as followers of Christ
was sometimes known simply as the truth or the way of the truth.
Read with me 3 John, verse 4, where it says,
no greater joy do I have than this,
that I should hear that my children go on walking in the truth.
Isn't that how parents feel about their children
who are serving Jehovah faithfully?
Absolutely.
However, not all young ones raised in a believing household
have stuck with the truth.
The same is true about many with whom we've studied the Bible.
Is there a situation hopeless?
No, not at all.
There's still time for them to act and show Jehovah
that they love Him and that they love the truth.
The end of this system is fast approaching.
It is going to happen and soon we encourage such ones
to give serious thought to their relationship with Jehovah God
because He genuinely loves them
and wants them to have life.
We pray that such ones take whatever steps are necessary
to return to Jehovah before it's too late.
It's a scriptural fact that people need to love the truth
in order to be saved.
This is the point that the Apostle Paul makes
at 2 Thessalonians 210, where it reads in part
that people will perish because they did not accept the love
of the truth in order that they might be saved.
Our prayer is that honest-hearted people everywhere
will respond to Jehovah's invitation to draw close to Him
and love the truth.
This world is heading for an abrupt end
at the Battle of Armageddon.
To survive that battle, we must have knowledge of Jehovah God
and live in harmony with His Word, which includes the teachings
of Jesus Christ.
Earthwide, we are proclaiming the good news
that God's kingdom has been established in the heavens.
That proclamation is the foretold witness to all the nations
that soon the accomplished end of this world system will come.
No, no, not the end of our planet,
because another basic truth is that the earth remains forever
as stated at Ecclesiastes 1-4.
These are absolute truths that we preach, and we love them.
Knowing the truth sets us free from lies, delusions, and superstitions.
And when we live by it, the truth strengthens us to endure hardships.
God's truth is so reliable and well-founded,
and it so inspires us with hope that it enables us to stand up under any test.
We see our brothers in lands where they are mistreated and persecuted,
doing just that, and they do it with joy.
To dismiss truth as relative or non-existent
is to miss out on the most thrilling and fulfilling quest that life offers.
To find the truth is to find hope.
To know and love it is to know and love the creator of the universe
and His only begotten Son.
To live by it is to live with purpose and peace of mind now and forever.